Centralized version contol system - Uses a central server to manage all the repositories, So if the server goes down 
                                    the entire project source code will gone. Eg:- CVS,Subversion.

Distributed version control system - But in case of DVCS every checkout is a backup for the source code,So if the remote 
                                     server goes down there will not be high impact like CVCS. Eg : git

Advantages :- fast,implicit backup,no need to rely on central server,security.

Terminologies :-
Local repository :- Its a repository where you can clone in the local server and do some git operations like add,delete 
                    modify the entire branches or some files.

Working directory :- Once you cloned to your git repo in local server. suppose if you add some file namely hello.txt to the 
                     working directory using git add command thn the files will be moved to the staging area, 
                     While performing git commit command the files will be moved from staging area and you can use 
                     push command for permenant change in central repository.

Workflow of git commit:-

1.creating two files in git repository and while you performing git commit command,
        * First it will create the blob objects for two files in .git/objects.
        * Second it will create a tree object which will point to two blob objects.
        *Finally it will create a commit object where it will be point to tree object.

git object commands :-
        * git cat-file commit "hash code" - to see the content in commit objects.
        * git ls-tree "hashcode" - to see the blob files and nested tree objects.
        * git cat-file blob "hash code"

Git commands:-

git --version - to check the git version.
git clone url - checkout the repo in local server
git log - to view the log details.
git show "commit ID" - to view the commit details
git diff - to review the changes.
git add . - to move the files from working directory to the staging area.
git commit -m "some txt" - To commit the changes.
git push origin "branch name" - To push the changes from local to remote repo.
git commit --amend -m "some txt" - To change the last commit Id and commit message with new changes in local repo.
git stash - To store the present working directory in some temporary space, because you cannot commit the changes at that 
            time due to some reasons.
git stash list - To view the list of temporary workspaces in git.
git stash pop - move the working directory from stack(temporary workspace) to the local repo branch.
git mv filename destination - move the files from one location to another location.
git mv oldfileName NewFilename - To rename the file.
git rm filename - to remove the file in git.

git reset command :-
         It is used to revert or reset the changes. There are three types of reset operation.
1.soft - cd/.git/refs/heads/branchname - to view the latest commit ID of the branch.You can reset the HEAD pointer by one 
         step back using git reset command.
         command : git reset --soft HEAD~

2.mixed - It is similar to the default reset command

3. Hard - When you have modified some changes in repo and u have moved that changes to staging area using git add command, then
          thn to revert the changes in staging area, git reset --hard "commit ID" command is used.

git tags :-
     It is used to give specific meaningfull name to the specific version in the repository.

Create tag command : git tag -a "Tag name" -m "some message about tag" HEAD or particular Commit ID
View the tag : git tag -1
Tag details : git show tag_name
delete tag : git tag -d tag_name

git patch :- It is nothing but a text file similar to diff but it also contains metadata about commit ID,
             author,date,commit message.
creating a git patch file : git format-patch -1


Git Branch commands:

create : git branch branchname
list the branches : git branch
create a branch using checkout command
 by copying contents from other branch : git checkout -b branchname
delete a branch : git branch -D branchname
rename a branch : git branch -m oldbranchname newbranchname
merging two branches :
         * Consider a scenario we have two branches and two developers,
Branch Names : Master,develop
developers name : fly1,fly2
 * suppose fly1 is working on develop branch and made some changes in the source code and he commits 
and pushed to the remote repo, Thn fly2 wants the same changes in master branch also, So instead of reimplementing
the source code, he can do merge operation with develop branch using the command :
git merge origin/develop

Git hooks: .git/hooks location for hook files in git. it is a script that executes before or after events such as
           commit,push,pull,merge




